Nightfall

Chapter 1 - News

	This adventure begins in the common room of The Old Prince, the heart of Day's End's social network. The place is as full as it's ever been, and everyone is talking about the latest piece of news that has just come in with the foresters - the wolves are inching closer to the edges of the forest and the town itself. This in itself is not entirely out of the ordinary; as seasons come and go, and the weather changes, the wolves often move around to follow the elk, their prey. But it is summer now, when the wolves normally stay well away from any civilization and hunt deeper in the forest where the elk can be found. What's more, the wolves the foresters saw apparently looked half starved - maybe even diseased. And then to top it all off, just as the news was beginning to get old and people were starting to talk about other things, some farmers declared that their cattle were attacked by a pack of wolves. Theirs exactly matched the descriptions given by the foresters; except in even worse condition, as evidenced by the head of one a farmer, Geris, brought in. Its eyes were sunken and its nose was raw; its fur was slick with a black, oily substance, and its teeth were nearly all rotted away. The mayor ordered it burned, and those who caught even so much as a whiff of the smoke gagged and were sent into coughing fits.

	There is much speculation as to what could be affecting the wolves so severely. Some proclaim the end of the world, or the return of the Niind Death; others scoff and put it down to a hoax. But that doesn't stop them from talking about it. Tyagr, the mayor's butler, seems to care little about it, as with most matters, but answers any questions about the what the mayor is doing smoothly. However, he is in fact very worried about what is happening and is not confident in the mayor's (lack of) actions - a character must make a Wisdom (Insight) check contested by Tyagr's Charisma (Deception) check (+6 bonus) to determine this. If the characters insist on seeing the mayor, he tries once to persuade them to leave but leads them to Usen after that. Usen, the mayor, has been keeping quiet about his opinions on the matter, but if pressed he will say that it's not a matter for concern while looking very concerned (but he always looks concerned). When pressed further, he will say that he is looking into it but refuse to give details, saying only that "someone" went out "not long ago" to "investigate." Hand waving may be involved, and the phrase "leave well enough alone." Finally, though, he will admit that nobody is doing anything about it and he thinks someone should (he suggests the characters themselves "since you seem so interested in the problem"). If the characters attempt to intimidate Usen into telling them more or giving them what they want, have the leading character make a DC 16 Charisma (Intimidation) check. If the check succeeds, Usen tells them what they want to know or obeys their request (to some reasonable extent). If the check fails, Usen grumbles and loudly denies them. If the check fails by 5 or more, Usen orders the characters to leave and calls two Guards into the room if they hesitate. If the characters try to persuade Usen, determine whether he agrees, disagrees, or strongly disagrees with the request. If he agrees, no check is required. If he disagrees or strongly disagrees, the characters may attempt up to two DC 16 Charisma (Persuasion) checks to change his mind. Each successful check increases his agreement by one level. If the check fails while Usen strongly disagrees, he becomes angry and orders the characters to leave after denying their request, saying they are wasting his time.
	If the characters find a way to search the papers in the locked drawer in Usen's desk, they find a series of memos written between himself and Tyagr. They betray Usen's discomfort at the situation, his desire to have it resolved, and his reluctance to send an expedition into the forest. Tyagr merely tried to offer practical advice, but agrees that the matter is of importance.

	The farmer who brought in the head of the wolf, Geris, has much to say on the matter, and he will tell anyone they meet his entire tale. It is greatly exagerrated and disjointed, but if the characters can listen carefully to what is said they may learn something useful. The story begins on a dark night, the wind howling through the chimney and all but blowing out the flames of the fireplace ("A night for trouble, if trouble would come on any night.") Then Geris heard an unearthly, even demonic, noise, seeming to come from all directions at once; it was the howling of wolves, but greatly distorted by the wind (and memory). Geris sat frozen in fear ("Those calls froze my blood to ice, I've heard wolves before, and those were not. Demons, I reckon,") but he didn't hear the noise again. A few minutes later, however, he clearly heard sounds of distress from his cattle and was shaken from his state of shock. He grabbed the hot poker from the fireplace and a large axe for chopping wood and ran outside, but the damage was already done: one dairy cow dead ("Betsuthi, my best.") The wolves fled in silence as soon as he ran out, but one wolf lay dead on the ground, gored and trampled by the bull. Geris calmed the animals as best he could, as furious as he was himself, and dragged the dead wolf around back ("I swear, it was as big as a bear,") where he left it for the night. Betsuthi was too heavy to move, so he left her in the barn. The next day, Farla (Geris's wife) and Geris prepared Betsuthi's meat to be eaten or sold ("with great sadness and anger in our hearts,") and they didn't look at the dead wolf at all until the following morning. When they did, they were no less disturbed by the diseased appearance of the wolf than they had been by Betsuthi's carcass, but they both agreed nonetheless that they should warn the other people of Day's End. So they chopped off the wolf's head, but it in a leather sack, and took it with their freshly carved meat to the town.
	Geris and Farla can be found selling their beef and sharing their story at the market.

	Natra, the innkeep of The Old Prince, has a lot to say about the news. Primarily she is annoyed that nobody seems to actually be doing anything about the situation, and the mayor only took interest long enough to order the wolf's head burned. She will tell the characters to ask Usen for support for a venture into the woods to follow the wolves' trails, to see where they came from and why they're sick. Then she says that if Usen denies them, she will go to him herself ("He always listens to me; he knows how much influence I have,") leaving her chef Ewas to manage the inn while she's gone. When she does go, though, she only comes back fuming and refuses to tell anyone what happened, which was that Usen threatened to shut down The Old Prince for good and replace it with a new inn run by someone "more loyal". Then she tried to intimidate him (see above) and failed. If she returns in this way, she secretly gives the characters 5gp each to buy supplies and encourages them to go anyways.

	If the characters wish to speak to the foresters who also saw the wolves, they will find them arguing loudly with a blacksmith in The Old Prince. The blacksmith's name is Ilcaycca, and she is notorious in Day's End for picking fights every chance she gets. 3 to 1 agains the foresters (Achye he/him, Ettosso she/her, Ceesenha he/him) she'll leave before it gets physical, but that won't stop her from causing a ruckus. Right now she's trying to tell the foresters that what they saw were not wolves, but wargs. Wargs are known to be ferocious and deadly beasts, and do live in Elking Wood, but they have only ever been seen deep in the forest. They share some common characteristics with wolves, but the two are easy to identify by sight, especially since wolves are common to see near Day's End. Ilcaycca's idea has no strong basis of truth; it is clearly nonsense. If the characters try to insert themselves into this debate, they find both parties very insistent on their positions, and unless the characters do something to settle things, Ilcaycca will storm off after only a few more minutes. After Ilcaycca leaves, the foresters are still grumpy and react negatively if the characters refute anything they say. If the characters are receptive and nod agreeably, though, then the foresters will tell them what they know, with Ettosso being the main storyteller.
	Achye, Ettosso, Ceesenha, and a few others were chopping up a tree and moving the pieces into their cart. Suddenly, their horses clearly became nervous ("like they had just smelled something they didn't like.") The foresters kept an eye out but continued to go about their business. A few minutes later, Ettosso saw a wolf peering at them from the forest. She alerted the others, and together they watched the wolf turn away and walk around their work area. Then they saw that there were at least 4 other wolves behind it, all going in the same direction. They didn't ever approach the work site, nor did they ever make a noise ("rather eerie"). From afar, though the foresters couldn't see them very clearly, they could see that the wolves were lean and had patches of matted or missing fur.

Chapter 2 - Investigation

	At this point the characters hopefully want to follow the wolves into the forest. But before they do, they might want supplies.	
	Rettoo is not in town, so any exotic materials like silk rope or alchemist's fire will not be available. Food can be bought at the market from any farmer (Geris and Farla are there selling beef and telling their story), and other basic equipment (rope, torches, pots, etc.) can be bought from peddlers and crafters there. Simple weapons and light armour can be bought from any blacksmith or leatherworker on demand, while medium and heavy armour will take time to tailor properly. Martial weapons can be bought from a few blacksmiths, but not all. They are not difficult to find, though.
	If the characters ask about Potions or other magical items, they will be directed to Ahahbu, the healer. She has 1d3 Potions of Healing on hand when the characters arrive, but she does not sell them immediately for any amount of gold ("I need these potions for my patients - you never know when someone might lose an arm around here"), but if the characters press further she inquires what they want it for (if they haven't already said). When she learns that they intend to venture into Elking Wood to investigate the cause of the wolves' advances, she becomes interested. She offers to give one potion to the characters if they agree to bring back a physical piece of whatever it is they find, be it fungus, rotting carcass, or magical item. She claims she wants it so she can study it and learn how to prevent against it in the future. This is almost the whole truth, but if any character succeeds on a DC 20 Wisdom (Insight) check on this statement, they glean that she hopes it is a magical cause and wants to investigate its magical properties to improve her own skills.

	When the players wish to follow the wolves into the forest, they may want to start either at Geris' farm or at the lumber yard.
	If they go to Geris' farm during the day, Geris and Farla will be out at the market selling beef, and they won't return until shortly before nightfall. The farm is about an hour away by foot down the farm road, or 30 minutes by cart. The door to the house is locked, but the barn, cattle yard, and the site of the attack are all accessible around the back. Though a couple days havce passed since the attack, the signs are still visible in the mud with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check or DC 13 Intelligence (Investigation) check. Once the signs have been spotted, it is possible to locate the wolves' tracks with a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Survival) check. On a 20 or higher, the character making the check also identifies that 8 wolves arrived at the farm, and 7 left by the way they came. There is only one set of tracks; the wolves left by the same way they came.
	As the characters follow the tracks, they find that they extend in a slightly curving line towards the edge of the forest, about an hour away by foot. About two-thirds of the way to the forest (after 40 minutes of walking), have the lead tracker make another Wisdom (Survival) check. On a 14 or higher, they notice that the wolves' tracks branch here, leading off in two directions. On a 17 or higher, they see this and also see that one of the tracks was made only by a single wolf, traveling alone, while the other track was made by the rest of the wolves. Additionally, the small track was only travelled once, while the large track was travelled in both directions.
	After a couple minutes of walking along the small track, the characters come across a greusome sight: the carcass of an elk alongside that of a wolf, both clearly corrupted by the same disease as the wolf head Geris brought in. Their fur is patchy and slick with a black, oily, substance, their eyes are sunken, and they are both emaciated. The elk was obviously killed by the wolf, as seen by the bite and claw marks along its neck and legs, while the wolf was impaled by one the elk's antlers. A DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check confirms that this was the cause of death of the wolf. The tracks near the area are disrupted, but a DC 15 Wisdom (Survival) check confirms that there are no tracks leading away from this spot other than those the characters followed. Or, if they found the spot without following any tracks (such as by flying or teleportation), they find the small track described above.
	The main track continues towards the forest.

	Where the track reaches the edge of the forest, the tree canopy hangs low over the characters' heads. The air feels thick, and warmer than it should in the shade. There are few noises; perhaps the chirp of a bird every now and then, or the rustle of a tree branch in the wind. In the summer, the forest floor is all but covered with shrubs, vines, and small rocks. It is not dense enough to offer any real hindrance, but it might be possible to hide among the small bushes. At the forest's edge, have the lead tracker make a DC 14 Wisdom (Survival) check to pick up the wolves' trail again.
	Outside of the forest, it is generally safe to camp outside at night. However, the sense of oppression that is felt during the day is only magnified in the sudden darkness of an eclipse. When the sun is eclipsed, which occurs at around 20:00 in the summer, any characters who are awake and who are able to notice the change in lighting must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw. On a success, the character feels intense fear, but is able to overcome it. On a failure, the character feels the same intense fear and is so affected by it that they become unable to move for 1 hour. They can speak only stutteringly, keep looking around, and cannot explain the source of their fear. Sudden movements, even by friendly characters, surprise them and cause them to call out. At the end of each 10-minute period, affected characters may reroll the save. They may do so with advantage if an unaffected character is helping them to overcome their fear. If a character overcomes their fear in this way, they become immune to this effect of the eclipses until they spend 24 hours outside of the forest.

	After about 30 minutes of following the wolves' tracks through the forest, the characters are coming close to the wolves. Four of the six wolves are resting around the base of a large tree, while the other two are hunting. If the characters have made Dexterity (Stealth) checks to be quiet, roll a contested Wisdom (Perception) check for the wolf that is standing guard. If it notices at least one of the characters (or if they didn't try to be stealthy at all), it alerts its companions and they try to hide in the undergrowth as the characters approach. However, one of them is too sick to move and lies on its side, breathing heavily. The names of the hunting wolves are Lipir and Phi, the name of the wolf on guard is Duatuivr, the name of the sick wolf is Diroh, and the names of the other two wolves are Ciar and Odes.
	When the characters arrive at this spot, characters with a Passive Wisdom (Perception) score higher than the Dexterity (Stealth) checks of the hidden wolves spots them. Alternatively, if they make a Wisdom (Perception) check to look around, they also notice wolves whose stealth checks were lower. Either way, they see the sick wolf on the ground. The hidden wolves will make no move to protect their companion until 1d20 minutes have passed, when the hunting wolves return with the diseased carcass of an elk. If the characters attack the hidden wolves, all three jump out and attack the characters. The three hidden wolves and the two hunting wolves currently have full hit points. A DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check on the sick wolf confirms that it is dying of the same disease that was seen in the other wolves. It has 1 hit point remaining, and will be dead in an hour if it is left as is. A healing spell cast on it will restore hit points as normal, and as long as the wolf is at its hit point maximum it will be able to move, but it has three levels of exhaustion. It refuses to drink a healing potion. However, the disease in it cannot be removed by healing alone. The wolf cannot regain hit points from rests, instead losing half of its remaining hit points (rounded up) at the end of each 24 hour period. It will not come with the characters willingly, but will not run from them either, if they heal it. Instead it will try to stay 30 feet away from them at all times without straying too far from the hidden wolves.

	The characters may take this opportunity to more thoroughly examine the disease as it affects a living creature. The sick wolf has dark spots around its eyes, but they are not sunken like those of the dead creatures the characters may have seen. Its fur is patchy in places, and the characters can now see that the black, oily, substance is in fact the blood of the animal; it is slowly oozing from several open wounds. Additionally, the characters can see what appears to be a large fungal growth around the shoulders of the wolf. A successful DC 25 Intelligence (Nature) check on this fungus identifies it as Iteawas Gancaer (eye-TEE-wass gun-KARE), a dangerous fungus that can infect animals with its spores and slowly kills them, consuming their body. After the animal's body is entirely consumed, the fungus begins releasing thousands of tiny spores into the air, to be carried on the wind until they are inhaled by another animal. It generally takes a long time, perhaps months, for the animal to be fully consumed. The fungus is more common in regions further nightward, but normally has difficulty spreading this far dayward, as the spores are extremely light-sensitive. They can also be destroyed by fire. They are dangerous to humanoids, who can become infected just as easily as animals. Magic that can cure disease can remove the fungus from a creature's body, and it can also be removed by an intense heat treatment that is almost as dangerous as the fungus itself: the creature is submerged in near-boiling water for extended periods of time until all signs of the disease have disappeared.
	The disease causes the affected creature to gain levels of exhaustion, and prevents the creature from resting effectively. At the end of each 24-hour period affected by the disease, the creature gains a level of exhaustion. Additionally, as long as the creature is infected, it does not lose levels of exhaustion at the end of a long rest, and it cannot regain hit points from resting.

Chapter 3 - Political Intrigue

	While the investigation of the disease is taking place, the players may over time become interested in finding out what Usen and the other rulers of Andal are doing about the situation. Since one of Day's End's responsibilities is to protect the province of Andal from the horrors of Noon-Night, it is reasonable to inquire about Usen.
	At first glance, it may appear that Usen has no care for the danger the disease poses to the people of Day's End. In fact, this is quite far from the truth. Though his motives are indeed not entirely selfless, Usen is in fact extremely concerned and wishes to send out a search party. However, due to the complicated and beaurocratic workings of Andal, he is not authorized to initiate such an expedition without express written permission from a senior governor. This permission is something he has been trying to get since he first heard of the wolves from the foresters. However, his seniors have no interest in the issue whatsoever; they are more concerned with a secret military operation to invade the neighboring province, which is occupying most of the government's funds. So, instead of helping Usen or even granting him permission to investigate, they have ordered him to raise the taxes in and around Day's End once again. Considering his already poor reputation among the populace, Usen is reluctant to do this, worried that he may spark a revolution (which would, at best, lead to exile; at worst, execution by his seniors for poor governance). If the players investigate the locked drawer in Usen's office, they may find notes from upper government alluding to this situation. They may also find up to one similar note hidden somewhere in Usen's house, as a reward for any excellent investigation rolls.
	If Usen discovers that the characters are independently investigating the disease, after a few days he will send Tyagr to find them and discuss with them solutions to the problem. If they are staying at The Old Prince, Tyagr will find them there. When he does, he will be disguised under a cloak and will attempt to talk to them in private. Tyagr begins by acknowledging that the characters are investigating the disease, and continue by stating his and Usen's concern with the issue. If the characters press the point of his strange secrecy, Tyagr will explain the state of the beaurocracy and why the news of what Usen is doing must not reach higher ears. Ultimately, however, the reason Tyagr is meeting with the characters is to offer them a small amount of help: he is prepared to equip them with weapons, rations, and other equipment to aid the characters in their quest. He can offer them up to 250 gp (total). If they ask, he will also offer them access to the library, but he will mention that he doesn't expect them to find much there. However, if they spend at least an hour looking, they will find a book describing the history of the town and how it was built on the ruins of an elvish palace.
