Day's End

	Day's End is a foresting outpost located near the Evening Horizon in the region of Andal. It is the nightmost controlled settlement of that region.

	Near Day's End is a large forest known as the Elking Wood; many think it is so called for the elk that can be hunted there, but in fact it is named for a great Elven king that once ruled in the forest. Wood is collected from this forest and carted back to the populous cities in the dayward plains. But collecting wood is not the outpost's only task; it is also stocked to keep watch on the forest and ensure that no nightbound creatures stray too close to civilization and cause trouble.

	There is an ongoing market in and around the center of the town where farmers, crafters, and peddlers sell their wares.

	Officially known as Elizar, Day's End is also a town that hosts a modest population of 800 - mostly foresters, but also millers, blacksmiths, and farmers - and therefore has an inn. The inn is called The Old Prince and is run by a talkative woman named Natra. Her common room is the hub of news, chatter, and debates of everyone within ten miles, and Natra herself chats no less than any of her patrons.

	The mayor of the town is a man named Usen. He generally stays in his rooms and doesn't see anyone if he can avoid it, leaving visitors to his butler, Tyagr. When he must speak to people, he is gruff, brief, and always interrupts whenever he thinks someone is saying something unimportant.
	Tyagr, on the other hand, is eloquent and adept at manipulating people into thinking they've heard what they wanted to hear. He knows very well his employer does not wish to see people and tries his best to steer them away with misleading answers and vague promises.
	Outside the town hall is a small courtyard ending in steps leading up the the entrance. Inside is a waiting room, in the middle of which is a secretary's desk where Sonda, the town hall's secretary, works, or Tyagr when she's away. There are seven chairs along the walls. The desk contains two drawers, one filled with sheets of paper describing appointment times, the other filled with stationery and writing utensils.
	At the back of the lobby is a locked door leading into the town hall's library. It is not open to the public, and most residents of Day's End are unaware of it's existence. It contains mostly informative books: propaganda about Andal's governance, military prowess, and financial stability; books about the Elking Wood and the Eclipses; and books about the political and colonial history of the region. There are about 100 books in total.
	Also at the back of the lobby is a lavatory, and a stairwell leading both up and down. Going up the stairs leads to a hallway on the second floor with only three doors; one to Usen's office, one to Tyagr's office, and one to a janitorial closet (the janitor's name is Danehban and he works mainly in the early mornings). At the far end of the hallway is a window overlooking the courtyard.
	Usen's office is large, and is where he spends nearly all of his time. His desk is large and perpetually covered in papers; Usen has a bad habit of letting things pile up, even though he works almost constantly. The papers are about all sorts of things; financial allocation to the city guard, petitions for new forestry equipment, requests for better roads, memo from Tyagr about missed appointments, and so on. Inside a locked drawer are the more sensitive memos; orders from the upper government, reports of attacks on other nightward cities and demands for tax levies. He wears the key to this drawer around his neck (in order to spot it while he is wearing it, a character must succeed on a DC 20 Wisdom (Perception) check). There is also a drawer of stationery, including several pens, inks of different colors, a wax seal, and so on. Usen also has a wardrobe in his office. It contains his extra pairs of boots and ceremonial suits. There is Usen's chair behind his desk, and another three chairs for appointments.
	Across from Usen's office is Tyagr's slightly smaller and much tidier office. He keeps a corkboard on the wall beside his desk for pinning memos, and keeps most of his papers in a neat filing cabinet. Organization is important for Tyagr because, as the mayor's butler and general assistant, it is his job to accept all incoming missives and either handle them himself or pass them on to Usen. Thus the flow of information across his desk is much higher than Usen's. Most of the types of papers that can be found in Usen's office can also be found in Tyagr's, except the papers Usen keeps locked away; Tyagr never holds onto those for long.
	Down the stairs from the lobby, going underground, is a hallway leading to the kitchen and another stairwell down. This is where the chef, Eemika, prepares food for Usen, Tyagr, Sonda, himself, and sometimes Danehban. The room is only partially underground; there are windows near the ceiling at ground level, both to let in light and allow the room to air out.
	Down the stairs again leads into the town's tiny prison. There are two cells, each only large enough for two people, or three uncomfortably (that is, more uncomfortably than it is to be in a prison alone). They are almost never occupied, and their locks are fairly weak; the locks have AC 15, 10 hit points, and immunity to psychic and poison damage. Each cell contains a single small bed and a hole in the ground that serves as a toilet.
	Additionally, at the far end of the prison under the town hall is a massive iron door, elaborately engraved with depictions of armies marching to war under a darkened sky. Close inspection reveals that the soldiers are not humans, but elves. The door has no handle, but in the centre is a large keyhole. The key to this door is long lost, but the lock can be picked with a successful DC 17 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check made with thieves' tools. The lock can also be attacked; it has AC 20, 25 hit points, resistance to non-magical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, and immunity to psychic and poison damage. The door itself is nigh indestructible. See Dungeon of Day's End.

	Rettoo is a merchant that frequently visits Day's End. He brings unique food items, art pieces, rare fabrics and more from his travels and sells them to the isolated community. Then he buys freshly cut wood and related products from the forest to resell in towns that are far from any trees, which is most dayward of Elking Wood. Whenever he visits Day's End, he brings news from dayward lands and tells stories to children and lumberjacks alike.

	Ahahbu is the healer of Day's End. She is constantly patching up cuts, broken bones, and worse. She has some limited magical abilities; she can cast Spare the Dying (at will), Goodberry (1/day), and she can prepare one Potion of Healing per week from 25gp worth of materials. She tries to keep one to three potions at hand for emergencies; roll 1d4 - 1 to determine how many potions she has at any given time.
	Ahahbu has a dark secret; she is, in fact, a Druid of the Eclipse. Though her powers would be minimal even during the noon-night, she becomes stronger during each eclipse. Druids of the Eclipse, like lycanthropes, derive their strength from the night-in-the-day, and become more powerful further nightward, where the eclipses are longer and more extreme. Much farther nightward of Day's End, it would be nearly impossible for a powerful druid to resist the corruption the darkness brings. Ahahbu is not severely affected because her powers are few as it is, and the eclipses are very brief in Day's End. But she does feel the pull towards the darkness, and is slowly trying to learn to use more magic without raising eyebrows.
	Ahahbu has a small building to herself that she lives in and works from. There is an open living room adjacent to both the kitchen and the sickroom. The sickroom contains a bed for her patients and a table with medical equipment on it. She keeps her healing potions in a drawer under the table, when she has any. The kitchen has a wood stove that Ahahbu uses to cook food and brew her healing potions, as well as heat the building in the winter. There is a regular pantry for foodstuffs and an additional pantry for medical ingredients.
	The main living room contains two chairs, one at a large wooden desk. Above the desk is two shelves holding 10 books on healing practices, plants and fungi and animal behaviour. Also on the shelves is a bowl of some nice-smelling herbs and a small statuette of a cat. The cat is carved from wood, and Ahahbu bought it on her travels in Melios (another small town a few weeks away from Day's End). It is carved from the wood of an ash tree, which is significant to Druids of the Eclipse. The desk contains three drawers: one large drawer that contains Ahahbu's patient records; a smaller drawer that contains a pocket knife, a magnifying glass, an ink pen and a bottle of ink, and some spare sheets of paper; and finally a small locked drawer. She carries the key to this drawer on her keychain. The drawer contains all of Ahahbu's druidic equipment, which she wishes to keep secret from others. Inside the drawer is an old, worn, book titled "Magics Under The Noon-Night." It describes a number of techniques, practices, and even specific spells that a Druid of the Eclipse can use to improve their powers. Beside the book is a wand made of ash, which serves as Ahahbu's Druidic Focus.

	Naori is a farmer who breeds and maintains cattle. They are the primary dealer of cattle to the farmers around Day's End. They live in a farmhouse with a blue roof 45 minutes out of Day's End.
