Dungeon of Day's End

	The small town of Day's End is hiding an ancient secret; under the town hall is a large dungeon, blocked off since the time of the Elvish King.

	At the far end of the prison under the town hall (see Day's End) is a massive iron door, elaborately engraved with depictions of armies marching to war under a darkened sky. Close inspection reveals that the soldiers are not humans, but elves. The door has no handle, but in the centre is a large keyhole. The key to this door is long lost, but the lock can be picked with a successful DC 17 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check made with thieves' tools. The lock can also be attacked; it has AC 20, 25 hit points, resistance to non-magical bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, and immunity to psychic and poison damage. If the lock is broken, the door can no longer be locked. The door itself is nigh indestructible.

Level 1 - Archives

	This level of the dungeon served as the storage space for all of the legal and governmental archives of the Elvish kingdom. It contains thousands of scrolls describing accounts of legal proceedings and bill amendments. Unless otherwise specified, ceilings are 10 feet high.

	1. Entrance
	The entrance area of the dungeon is a 20x20 foot square room with stone brick walls. The north wall is largely filled with the entrance door, the back of which is engraved with an image of an elf monarch seated upon a magnificent throne. The elf wears a crown and holds a long curved sword resting upon their knees. To either side of the throne is an elf warrior, each wearing full-face helmets and weilding spears. An inscription at the top reads (in Elvish): "The sword of justice rests on the wisdom of words." On this side of the door there is a handle and a lever to lock the door (if the lock was broken, this lever no longer moves).
	In each of the darth and lith walls is an alcove each containing a stone statue of an elf warrior identical to those depicted on the door. The statue in the lith wall is largely eroded by a leak in the ceiling above it, that has slowly worn away the detailing on the helmet of the statue. These statues have also been magically animated, but their magic has decayed over the centuries such that they will no longer animate unless either one is touched. They will attack when this happens (as Animated Armor), but the statue in the lith wall no longer has the benefit of any sort of vision.
	The south end of the room leads to a T intersection with a passageway. The passageway is 10 feet wide and 100 feet long, extending 40 feet both darth and lith from the entrance room. There are torch brackets in the passage, but no torches. All along the passageway on both sides are doors leading into archive rooms. There are eight such rooms, spread out evenly along the passageway. Each room has an unlocked stone door leading into it from the passage. These doors are carved with simple images of trees and woodland creatures. At each end of the passage is a stairwell leading down.
	-Lithward
	Wolf
	Elk(empty)
	Tree
	Birds
	-Darthward
	Mushrooms
	Monkeys
	Beast(pre-basilisk)
	Spider

	2. Archive Rooms
	Each archive room is 20 feet wide and extends 50 feet from the door. Each room is filled with long shelves with thousands of scrolls upon each one. With one shelf all along each 50 foot wall, one shelf along the back 20 foot wall, three double-width 40-foot shelves along the length of the room, and five layers to each shelf, each room contains 1800 feet of shelf space. Each foot of shelf space can contain up to 10 scrolls, giving each room a maximum capacity of 18000 scrolls. However, not every room is filled (and some may be overfilled, with scrolls piled on the ground); roll 2d20 + 60 to determine the percentage of 20000 scrolls the room contains.
	Additionally, the lithernmost room on the north side of the passage has been breached by a Black Pudding. The ooze has lived in this room for hundreds of years, eating the scrolls within and slowly clearing the shelves. This room is nearly emptied of scrolls. When the characters enter the room, the ooze will try to hide if they have a light source with them. If they don't or they get within the reach of the ooze, it attacks. It will attack the smallest character, ignoring anyone else, and it will try to flee if it reduced to less than a quarter of it's maximum hit points.
	A character who can read Elvish can read the content of the scrolls. They are written in a formal version of Elvish that was never broadly spoken and was mostly used for official documents such as these. While none of the scrolls are individually interesting, a character reading them may learn things about the nature of the kingdom based on the amount of time they spend reading.
	1 minute: The name of the Elvish king was Iurede Thoilar Cilifa.
	10 minutes: The king ruled with a council of 19 other governors.
	30 minutes: The kingdom spanned a large portion of the forest and also much of the lands lithward of the forest.
	1 hour: About one third of the king's council disagreed strongly with the king and the rest of the council on a matter of great importance.
	2 hours: Said matter of great importance was the use of magic during the eclipse.
	4 hours: The king and two thirds of his council strongly supported using magic during the eclipse, as the eclipse granted them additional power. The divergent third was against this practice, citing the dangers of this dark power and the harm it was causing. The king's position proved more powerful, and the elves continued to practice magic under the eclipse.
	8 hours, and only if the characters read the remaining scrolls in the room with the ooze: The magic performed by the elves spawned evil creatures that grew beyond the elves' control and infested the forest. The kingdom was destroyed and the elves scattered. These scrolls are dated with the most recent date of any of the scrolls, although the calendar is apparently different from the modern calendar, so it is not easy to know exactly when this occurred.

	3. 