Booksmith

The Booksmith is a subrace of gnome that lives far beneath the earth in isolated communities. Booksmiths are known for their interest in history and their insistence on supporting every claim with factual, often written, evidence. The culture of Booksmiths revolves around binding, writing, and maintaining books.

To most Booksmiths, the primary purpose of books is to record history. They record everything they can learn of the outside world, from city-destroying battles to royal lineages to arrests in small towns. By doing this, all Booksmith colonies contain one or more immense libraries, filled with shelves hundreds of feet long. To organize them, each of the millions of books has a magical gem embedded into its spine, marked with a unique signature that tells its age, author, and so on. Complex mechanical and magical machines traverse the shelves, scanning the books and moving them if necessary. Preserving the books is a science the Booksmiths have perfected to an astonishing degree; special curing processes for their covers, pages, and inks can keep a book in readable condition for millenia.

Often, there will also be a smaller and more exclusive library dedicated to magical books and spellbooks. Access to the thousands of spells, rituals, and magical manuals is restricted and only certain high-ranking booksmiths are permitted to enter. Exceptions can be made for other Booksmiths when necessary, and very rarely for an outsider if they are in dire need and can promise a great service to the community. These libraries have a multitidue of magical wards and protections to keep out intruders.

To record their histories, reporter Booksmiths are frequently sent out to nearby friendly settlements and cities to learn of recent events. In exchange for access to their libraries, they may be given exotic foods, rare materials, or offered services such as protection. The service the Booksmiths provide is valuable because they make an absolute guarantee that the knowledge will be kept for longer than any mortal lifespan, and that it will be completely factual. Booksmiths who infuse their writing with biases, opinions, and creativity may be detained, exiled, or executed.

A Booksmith may be driven to adventure by a desire for knowledge of more distant lands, or perhaps they were exiled for their creativity.
